In this lesson, we're going to discuss how
modules work as name spaces.
And a name space is just another way to
define a scope.
When a object is defined within a name
space, it's like defining it within a
function.
Any definition inside a name space, is
considered local to that name space.
So I could have a variable named x, for
example, in the
main program, and then have a variable
named x in a namespace.
And as long as I reference the x
with the namespace, then the two names
don't conflict.
Let me demonstrate what I'm talking about.
We're gonna call this program
namespace.py.
In the past few lessons we've been
working the Newton module and importing
our functions
like so, either with import star or
importing a specific function or list of
functions.
Another way to import from a module, the
way we've use these other modules before.
It's to just say import newton.
When we do that with our own modules we
have to be careful.
For example, watch this simple example.
[BLANK_AUDIO].
Alright, notice it says the name square
root is not
defined, even though we know square root
is imported from newton.
What I have to do is, to use square root.
I have to qualify the name, by naming the
module first.
That module then becomes the name space,
for the square root function.
Now let's try it.
There we go.
So that's why we were using the from
Newton import star form of the import
statement
before, so that we didn't have to qualify
it with the module name or the namespace
name.
What this does for us, by doing it this
way, we can also have other names, in
our program that we can use that have the
same name as a function for Newton.
So for example.
I can define square as such.
Now, normally I would not put a print
function in the middle
of a function definition, but I'm doing
this primarily to separate the two.
So now, I can call.
Either function, either square function,
the function from newton, or the
function from the main program, as long as
I'm careful about
making sure if I want to use the square
function from
the newton module, that I qualify it with
the namespace named newton.
So lemme show you an example.
We'll say, square from newton.py.
And then we'll say square from main
program and
then print square num and we should see
the difference.
Let's save and run the program.
[BLANK_AUDIO]
So, square from newton.py just prints 144,
12 squared.
Then square from main program.
First it prints the line, not from the
newton module, and then it prints 144.
So hopefully this helps explain a little
bit about how modules work as namespaces.
Those of you who are familiar with other
languages as java
and C++ and C# are probably already
familiar with how namespaces work.
We haven't really covered them in this
course, the namespaces aren't
used in python the same way they are in
other languages.
But here is a very clear example of how we
can have two functions with the same name,
but call
them, without a conflict, by using a
namespace name, what,
what we'll call the fully qualified name
for the function.
That's what we have right here.
Newton.square is the fully qualified name
for the
square function that comes from the newton
module.
So, that wraps this little lesson on
modules as namespaces and now
we are ready to move in to the exercise
for this chapter.